---
layout: external
title: Understanding Dynamic Ecological Networks with AI (AI:EcoNet)
role: 2025–2029 AAU - Tech Faculty
category: projects
external_url: 
tags: 
image:
  thumb: 2025-AIEcoNet.png
published: true
---

The **AI:EcoNet** aim to explore one of the grand challenges of modern ecology: predicting how species interactions in complex biological networks change across time and space. Species form intricate interaction networks (such as food webs) that are essential for ecosystem stability, yet these networks are increasingly disrupted by human activities, climate change, and biodiversity loss. Traditional models fall short of capturing this complexity, making it difficult to anticipate how ecosystems will respond to future pressures.

This project will pioneer **Graph Representation Learning (GRL)** methods tailored to ecological networks. By developing scalable models for **signed, temporal, and attributed networks**, we will reveal how interactions are lost, gained, or rearranged as species respond to shifting climates. The project leverages unique large-scale datasets—from fruit–frugivore interactions to microbial communities—ensuring that model development begins on day one. 

With expertise bridging **ecology, machine learning, and data science**, AI:EcoNet will not only advance conservation science but also push the boundaries of AI methods, with applications extending into healthcare, social networks, and other domains. Ultimately, this project will deliver both **new ecological insights** and **state-of-the-art machine learning tools**, contributing to biodiversity preservation, sustainable resource management, and climate change mitigation.
